Update Feature-Policy to Permissions-Policy (#22439)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/permissions-policy/index.md

> ---

Reviewer: It would be good if @teoli2003 could look at this document as it is a "key doc". I can pretty much be sure of the rest.

title: Permissions-Policy
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy
tags:
  - Authorization
  - Permissions-Policy
  - HTTP
  - Permissions
  - Reference
  - Security
  - Web
  - header
browser-compat: http.headers.Permissions-Policy
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The HTTP **`Permissions-Policy`** header provides a mechanism to allow and deny the use of browser features in its own frame, and in content within any {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} elements in the document.

Reviewer: This feels a bit garbled. Maybe

```suggestion
The HTTP **`Permissions-Policy`** header provides a mechanism to allow and deny the use of browser features in a document or within any {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} elements in the document.
```

    - `src`: The feature will be allowed in this `<iframe>`, as long as the document loaded into it comes from the same origin as the URL in its {{HTMLElement('iframe','src','#Attributes')}} attribute. This value is only used in the `<iframe>` `allow` attribute, and is the _default_ `allowlist` value in `<iframe>`s.
    - `"<origin>"`: The feature is allowed for specific origins (for example, `"https://a.example.com"`). Origins should be separated by spaces. Note that origins in `<iframe>` allow attributes are not quoted.

    The values `*` and `()` may only be used on their own, while `self` and `src` may be used in combination with one or more origins.

    > **Note:** Directives have a default allowlist, which is always one of `*`, `self`, or `none` for the `Permissions-Policy` HTTP header, and governs the default behavior if they are not explicitly listed in a policy. These are specified on the individual [directive reference pages](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy#directives). For `<iframe>` `allow` attributes , the default behavior is always `src`.

> Chrome 108 introduced the ability to include wildcards in Permissions Policy origins. This means that instead of having to explicitly specify several different subdomains in an allowlist, you can specify them all in a single origin with a wildcard.

Reviewer: Browser specific stuff should be included in the BCD and not mentioned here in a specific browser context - so here "Browsers that support wildcards ..."

Author: Good call. I've replaced this with "Where supported, you can include wildcards..."

So instead of

```http
("https://example.com" "https://a.example.com" "https://b.example.com" "https://c.example.com")
```

You can specify

```http
("https://example.com" "https://*.example.com")
```

> **Note:** `"https://*.example.com"` does not match `"https://example.com"`.

> ## Examples

Reviewer: `Directives` come before 'Examples' in the page template https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/HTTP_header_page_template

Author: OK; page structure updated.

### Basic usage

#### Permissions-Policy header

To allow all origins access to geolocation, you would do this:

```http
Permissions-Policy: geolocation=*
```

Or to allow access to a subset of origins, you'd do this:

```http
Permissions-Policy: geolocation=(self "https://a.example.com" "https://b.example.com")
```

Several features can be controlled at the same time by sending the header with a comma-separated list of policies, or by sending a separate header for each policy.

For example, the following are equivalent:

```http
Permissions-Policy: picture-in-picture=(), geolocation=(self https://example.com), camera=*;

Permissions-Policy: picture-in-picture=()
Permissions-Policy: geolocation=(self https://example.com)
Permissions-Policy: camera=*
```

> #### &lt;iframe&gt;s

Reviewer: I'm not sure about headings and < or >. So "a thought:

```suggestion
#### iframes
```

> To allow all origins access to geolocation, you would do this:

Reviewer: So I understand you can set the allowed permissions in either the server or an iframe. When would you use each approach? i.e. I understand you "can" but why would you?

Reviewer: I see this is answered below "a bit". I think we kind of need to mention the inheritance mode early. Otherwise at this point it isn't clear that you only get the permissions in an iframe that are already available to you via the server to specify  in the iframe.

Author: I've moved the note about the inheritance behavior up into the section where the iframe syntax is first introduced, as it explains the need for both pretty nicely. Let me know if you think this needs anything else.

Reviewer: That note/link is excellent. All good.

Several features can be controlled at the same time by including a semi-colon-separated list of policy directives inside the `allow` attribute.

```html
<iframe src="https://example.com" allow="geolocation 'self' https://a.example.com https://b.example.com; fullscreen 'none'">
```

It is worth giving the `src` value a special mention. We mentioned above that using this allowlist value will mean that the associated feature will be allowed in this `<iframe>`, as long as the document loaded into it comes from the same origin as the URL in its {{HTMLElement('iframe','src','#Attributes')}} attribute. This value is the _default_ `allowlist` value for features listed in `allow`, so the following are equivalent:

```html
<iframe src="https://example.com" allow="geolocation 'src'">

<iframe src="https://example.com" allow="geolocation">
```

### Denying access to powerful features

> SecureCorp Inc. wants to disable Microphone and Geolocation APIs in its application. It can do so using the following response header:

Reviewer: Link to the API docs for microphone etc?

Author: done

```http
Permissions-Policy: microphone=(), geolocation=()
```

> By specifying `()` for the origin list, the specified features will be disabled for all browsing contexts (this includes all `<iframe>`s), regardless of their origin.

Reviewer: What if the permission is set on an iframe?

Actually, I see this might be answered in the next section :-)

Author: Yup, this is explained earlier on now

### Combining HTTP header and `<iframe>` policies

> As mentioned above, for an `<iframe>` to have a feature enabled its allowed origin must also be in the allowlist for the parent page. Because of this inheritance behavior, it is a good idea to specify the widest acceptable support for a feature in the HTTP header, and then specify the subset of support you need in each `<iframe>`.

Reviewer: Is there a link to this "inheritence behaviour"?

For example, let's say that we wanted to enable geolocation usage on our own origin, and in embedded content coming from our trusted ad network. We could set up the page-wide Permissions Policy like this:

```http
Permissions-Policy: geolocation=(self https://trusted-ad-network.com)
```

> Over in our ad `<iframe>`s, we could set access to the `https://trusted-ad-network.com` origin like this:

Reviewer: You might mean this

```suggestion
Over in our `<iframe>`s, we could set access to the `https://trusted-ad-network.com` origin like this:
```

Reviewer: Oh, I can see it is deliberate.
